docs: Kubernetes deployment with the Helm chart (#969)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/platform/kubernetes-deployment/kubernetes-production-deployment.mdx

---
title: Redpanda in Kubernetes
tags:
  - Helm
  - Helm deployment
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Redpanda in Kubernetes | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn about Redpanda in Kubernetes and the tools that are available"/>
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Kubernetes is a container orchestration tool that helps you to manage Redpanda cluster deployments using declarative configuration files called _manifests_.
Kubernetes provides a standardized way of achieving the following:

- High availability 
- Disaster recovery
- Scalability

> ## Helm chart vs Redpanda Operator

Author: ```suggestion
## Redpanda Helm chart vs Redpanda Operator
```

The Helm chart generates and applies all the manifest files you need for deploying Redpanda in Kubernetes. For example:

- StatefulSet
- Headless ClusterIP Service
- NodePort Service
 
You can deploy the Helm chart with the default settings, or customize the configuration by overriding the default values
in your own YAML file with the `--values` option or in the command line with the `--set` option.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="operator" label="Redpanda Operator">

The Redpanda Operator extends Kubernetes by defining a custom resource definition (CRD) to represent Redpanda clusters as Kubernetes resources. The Redpanda Operator monitors Kubernetes for Redpanda resources, and it creates or updates Redpanda clusters to match the declarative specification in the CRD.

:::warning
Redpanda does not recommend the Redpanda Operator for new deployments. The Redpanda Operator was built for Redpanda Cloud and has unique features and workflows for that specific use case. If you're not already using the Redpanda Operator, use the Helm chart.
:::

The documentation for Redpanda Operator is provided only for existing users in the Reference section.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## Managed vs Self-Managed

Author: ```suggestion
## Managed vs self-managed
```

---
title: Redpanda in Kubernetes
tags:
  - Helm
  - Helm deployment
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Redpanda in Kubernetes | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn about Redpanda in Kubernetes and the tools that are available"/>
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Kubernetes is a container orchestration tool that helps you to manage Redpanda cluster deployments using declarative configuration files called _manifests_.

> Kubernetes provides a standardized way of acheiving the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes provides a standardized way of achieving the following:
```

> - High availability 
> - Scalability
> - Disaster recovery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- High availability 
- Disaster recovery
- Scalability
```

## Helm chart vs Redpanda Operator

Redpanda offers two tools for deploying Redpanda clusters in Kubernetes:

- Redpanda Helm chart (recommended)
- Redpanda Operator (not recommended for new deployments)

Redpanda recommends the Helm chart for all new deployments.
As a result, the Kubernetes documentation in this section is for Helm chart deployments.

<Tabs groupId="kubernetes-tools">
<TabItem value="helm" label="Helm chart">

The Helm chart generates and applies all the manifest files you need for deploying Redpanda in Kubernetes. For example:

- StatefulSet
- Headless ClusterIP Service
- NodePort Service
 

> You can deploy the Helm chart with the default settings or you can customize the configuration for your use case by overriding the default values
> in your own YAML file with the `--values` option or in the command line with the `--set` option

Reviewer: Consider: 
```suggestion
You can deploy the Helm chart with the default settings, or customize the configuration by overriding the default values
in your own YAML file with the `--values` option or in the command line with the `--set` option.
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="operator" label="Redpanda Operator">

> The Redpanda Operator extends Kubernetes by defining a custom resource definition (CRD) to represent Redpanda clusters as Kubernetes resources. The Redpanda Operator monitors Kubernetes for Redpanda resources, and creates or updates Redpanda clusters to match the declarative specification in the CRD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Redpanda Operator extends Kubernetes by defining a custom resource definition (CRD) to represent Redpanda clusters as Kubernetes resources. The Redpanda Operator monitors Kubernetes for Redpanda resources, and it creates or updates Redpanda clusters to match the declarative specification in the CRD.
```

:::warning
Redpanda does not recommend the Redpanda Operator for new deployments. The Redpanda Operator was built for Redpanda Cloud and has unique features and workflows for that specific use case. If you're not already using the Redpanda Operator, use the Helm chart.
:::

> The documentation for Redpanda Operator is provided only for existing users to reference in the Reference section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The documentation for Redpanda Operator is provided only for existing users in the Reference section.
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Managed vs Self-Managed

You can run Redpanda on managed Kubernetes platforms as well as self-managed environments.

<Tabs groupId="kubernetes-env">
<TabItem value="managed" label="Managed">

Managed Kubernetes platforms manage one or more components of a Kubernetes cluster for you.
Several cloud computing providers offer products that provision Kubernetes clusters on their platform.

> For example Google offers GKE and Amazon offers EKS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Google offers GKE and Amazon offers EKS.
```

> Managed Kubernetes platforms are responsible for:
> 
> - Maintaining and updating the control plane software.
> - Monitoring the health of master nodes and performing repairs, as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managed Kubernetes platforms do the following:

- Maintain and update the control plane software
- Monitor the health of master nodes and perform repairs, as needed.
```

You are responsible for deploying and maintaining your applications on the worker nodes.
Managed Kubernetes platforms allow you to provision cloud instances to serve as worker nodes.
These instances are pre-configured with the Kubernetes agent software and automatically join your Kubernetes cluster.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="self-managed" label="Self-Managed">

Self-managed Kubernetes environments include any deployments where you are responsible for the control plane and the master nodes.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Getting started for development

To learn the basics of Redpanda in Kubernetes, [deploy a cluster to use for development and testing](../../quickstart/kubernetes-qs-dev).

## Production deployment workflow

> The production deployment tasks may involve Kubernetes administrators as well as Kubernetes users.
> 
> - The Kubernetes administrator prepares the cluster with the prerequisites and tunes the worker nodes.
> - The Kubernetes user deploys Redpanda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The production deployment tasks may involve Kubernetes administrators as well as Kubernetes users. The administrator prepares the cluster with the prerequisites and tunes the worker nodes. The user deploys Redpanda.
```

Reviewer: Moving into text to avoid having the ordered list follow the unordered list.

1. [Prepare the Kubernetes cluster](../kubernetes-cluster-requirements).

1. [Review the best practices](../kubernetes-best-practices).

1. [Tune the worker nodes](../kubernetes-tune-workers).

1. [Deploy Redpanda](../kubernetes-deploy).

## Documentation conventions

The Kubernetes documentation follows these conventions:

- Resource names: Kubernetes resources names, such as Service or PersistentVolume, are distinguished by the use of Pascal case. These are the names of resources when specified as a kind in manifest files.

> - Helm values: Helm values such as `storage.persistentVolume.enabled` are rendered in monospace font and written according to the JSON path specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Helm values: Helm values, such as `storage.persistentVolume.enabled`, are rendered in monospace font and written according to the JSON path specification.
```
